# envent2024
Widely-used fungicide Pristine® causes sub-lethal effects in common eastern bumble bee (Bombus impatiens) microcolonies

Bumble bees are declining across the globe. Causes of this decline have been attributed to a variety of stressors, most notably, pesticides. Fungicides are a type of pesticide generally long considered to not affect bumble bees, and as a result, are often applied to flowering plants without consideration of pollinator exposure. Recent work demonstrates that fungicides have sublethal effects in bumble bees, but little is known about how much fungicide it takes to cause these sublethal effects. To address this gap in the literature, we fed microcolonies of the common eastern bumble bee (Bombus impatiens) pollen contaminated with a range of fungicide concentrations. We chose these concentrations based on the range of fungicide concentrations in pollen and nectar that were reported in the literature. We found that intermediate levels (1,500 ppb) of fungicide led to smaller adult males overall, measured by their dry weights and their relative fat values. Higher doses of fungicide (15,000 ppb) were also associated with shorter times until the first adult male emergence. Because body size and emergence timing are important aspects of bumble bee reproduction behavior, results have implications for mating success and altered life history events in bumble bees exposed to fungicide. E. N. Runnion1, J.P. Strange2, F. S. Sivakoff1 1Department of Evolution, Ecology, and Organismal Biology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA 2Department of Entomology, The Ohio State University, 2021 Columbus, OH USA

Variable interpretation (only variables used for analysis are described below);
colony = the unique identifier associated with an individual microcolony
replicate = spatial block
whole.mean = the average amount of pollen consumed per pollen patty per microcolony 
qro = the original queenright colony all workers within a microcolony were sourced from 
